# Exploratory-Data-Analysis
Find out the reasons of high Claimants (Benefits) count in Birmingham County-UK over the last 10 Years

I analysed ten local counties with highest claimants based on four different age groups and Birmingham is the only county appeared consistently on top of the list in each year. It may be due the level of education of residents, proportion, and contribution of women in work force, and the ethnicity and diversity of the population. There is no deviation in the local counties different age groups claimants count as compared to their total claimants. Only Hertfordshire showed highest claimants count aged over 50 years as compared to all claimants. It may be due to the large number of working age population belongs to this age group. It also showed from the unemployment data that the Hertfordshire appeared in ten local counties with highest unemployed working age population in each year, but only appeared three times in aged above 16 years claimants. There are some similarities between the unemployment and claimants’ data, most of the counties appeared in ten local counties with highest claimant count of aged 16+ also showed in highest unemployed working age population. 
The unemployment and claimant rate both effected by the size of working age population, like Hartlepool and South Tyneside. The percentage of claimants increased to nearly double during pandemic. However, the unemployment rate during the pandemic has hardly change, and it may be due to the government furlough scheme. It seems like some counties have severe affect during pandemic such as Barking and Dagenham, Westminster, and Surrey. Surrey appeared first time in ten local counties with highest claimants aged over 50 years during the pandemic (2020 and 2021). It may be due to the nature of the job of this age group, like Aviation and Hospitality sector have impacted heavily during pandemic than other sectors.  
It will need further research to find the reasons of the highest claimants and unemployed working age population in Birmingham County. The further research to find their education level, percentage of women in working age population and their employment rate, ethnicity, and compared it to other counties like Surrey. The research can be extended to find the reasons of the counties that have affected more during pandemic by looking at the nature of their job.   
